The Joe Rogan experience. I mean, look, man, you had some incredible fights,
but to me, um, one of my fondest memories is, you know, Kevin,
James is from the king Queens on the TV show. Me and Kevin,
James were at my house and it Encino the night you fought Tyson, the first one,
the first fight. When, when you dropped Tyson, I'll never forget it.
Because back then we knew that Buster Douglas had beaten Tyson,
but we kind of almost thought it was like a fluke,
but when you were battering Tyson, and then you put him down and stopped him,
I'll never forget, Kevin, James jumping off the.
Couch, just jumping. Oh my God. We're throwing our arms up in the air. I mean,
that was for.
Sure.
One of the greatest heavyweight championship victories in the history of the
sport. It was just an incredible fight because in a lot of people's eyes,
Tyson was like this, a bad guy. He was like a live people,
thought of him as like a thug, you know?
And you were thought of as this like really good guy and many people didn't
think that you were going to be able to beat him.
So when you didn't just beat him, but you took it to him, you took it to him,
you know, like early on in the fight,
you could tell that you had decided you were going to push him around and you
know, once you had stopped him, I mean, it was pandemonium in my house.
So everybody was going crazy. They couldn't believe it.
Well, yeah. I know big Arabic, you know, I had, you know,
I'm like, you know, I'm a Christian, I,
but the point of the point of the matter I work hard.
I train hard and you know, my momma said,
ain't too many things that you do well. So son,
you know which one, which one is sports you going to do?
Because I was a good athlete. I could, I,
but football and boxing was my two best one.
But you know, I played basketball. I did baseball. I did everything.
My mama said. And enough time in the day to be the best at everything. Yeah.
Know what I'm saying? She says you got to pick one. So when I played,
when I played football in 10th grade and they put me on the bench and
I started crying and my mother said,
you can't quit too. The season is over.
So I had to play on a play on that game. They pounded,
let me play in the championship game.
And they seen how good I was and asked me was I come back next year? I said, no,
sir. He said why? I said, my mama said, I ain't got to like this.
My mama told me, you got to bet on yourself. Are you going to bet on the coach?
Right. So in boxing, you bet on yourself, right?
In teen sport, you bet.
You bet on the coach.
You're betting on the other players and you bet on the coach letting you play.
Right. Whereas in boxing, they have to let you that's right? Yeah.
You may be asking somebody to tag him.
Now, when did you think that boxing was going to be your career?
Was it right after that? So like around 10th grade.
Oh, weren't yeah. After 10th grade I realized that,
you know, it came down to one,
one sport that I really do real well.
And so when I, uh, you know,
I just put everything in it.
Well, you were a part of that incredible Olympic team too. I mean,
so many great fighters came out of that Olympic team. Right? Freeland personnel,
Whitaker. Taylor. I can tell you all.
Of them. Paul Gonzalez, 1 0 6, Steve McCurry went 12,
19, Robert Shannon, 1 25, Mildred Taylor,
1 32 Panell Wilker, 1 39, Jerry,
Jerry, and, and one, four to seven with Martin.
[inaudible] 1 56. Frank, take 1 65 Virgin here. Seven,
eight Virgil hill. Dan,
Dan Henry Tillman and uh, Tyrell.
Debra bigs. What.
A team. Yeah. Crazy team.
Now I can go mellow one. Civil Chevron. Amazing. Yeah.
And you, besides Michael Spinks,
you were one of the rare guys to move up,
to move up and be successful as a heavyweight.
Did you just decide like after you'd beat white Muhammad Kawi,
who was a cruiserweight champion and you'd beat, you know,
some real good names at that weight class you had just decided that heavyweight
was where the real money was at?
No, actually, you know, my goal,
I wanted to be the heavyweight champion of the world and,
and the only person that I knew if Mike Tyson do it,
I could do it. So, so when Mike Tyson, well, everybody,
you know, you know, you know, people tend to make up excuses now,
Mike Tyson, as a small person, right. He, he, after me,
he hit hard, but he got short arms. Right.
And so I seen Mike whoop whoop and people that
6, 4, 6, 5, 6, 6, they are weighing by 20,
30 pounds. He beat the daylights out of them.
I figured it might could do it. I could do it.
So that gave you inspiration. That.
That gave me inspiration. My own thing is that, you know, you know, you know,
I actually, you know, boys, the cruiserweight division,
I kinda went through that.
And what's the next goal is to go up and, you know,
and, and I, I chose to do it. And a lot of people say, man,
you crazy. Well, you know,
you have to be a little of that to be in this hand to work. Yeah.
There's no doubt about that. Right? Yeah.
So when you first did fight,
my Tyson was that like something you would always knew was going to happen,
but once he got out of jail.
Well, it was a, it was like this, my mom would just tell me, she said,
now let me tell you, bye, good fighter. Who came, wish them away.
They ain't never going nowhere. You got to face it. And so, you know what?
And you know, and everybody in everything that I done,
everybody will always remind me, you didn't beat Mike Tyson. And I'd be like,
well, you're right. And I said, but it's not like it was my fault. And I just,
you know, every time I got rid of the phone, something happened, I said,
but one my fault. Well, you, you ain't really the champ till you beat him.
I, it was amazing that he was so popular.
I'm special in my house.
I was, you know, when people get mad at me, they.
Tell me, I can't wait till you fight Mike Tyson.
So the thing is, is that, you know, you know,
he was that person that I watched everyone in his fight. And,
and I realize you can't make that miss that many mistakes with Mike. Right.
When.
You finally did beat him, do you think when you did fight him and did beat him,
do you think that that raised your,
your celebrity and your notoriety to a different level?
Well, no, not really. I think that it,
it let people know that you ain't gotta, you,
ain't gotta be considered a bad person to be good in the ring. Yeah.
Because when you're in a mountain thing, I could box. And,
but everybody thought that because I didn't curse a lot.
I don't get in trouble that you,
you a mean enough to beat a mean guy and most
so that I'm, I'm a skilled for fighting. I took him abide in. I did everything.
Right. Um, you know, I, you know,
in general I follow a lot, a guy who, a lot bigger and, and,
but there's an art to the game. It's really art.
It's really art. It is. It's not just one thing. You just,
you hit harder because you got to be able to take something to give something
right.
Where you always can take it. Yeah. Part of your,
your career when you had an iron chin, I mean, Riddick,
Paul was a giant man and he hit you with some bombs.
And those wars that you guys had, you were able to take some incredible punches.
Yeah. The art me, I knew that I could take,
but can you take it? And so the whole big thing is the whole big thing.
My whole thing, my whole, my whole big thing with my,
is that what Mike had told somebody say, everybody got a plan till they get hit.
And he was right. Because, you know, if, if you hitting it,
this guy worry about you hitting him and he worry about getting hit. So he,
ain't got to worry about it. Right. But I knew if you hit me,
I'm going to hit you back.
And so that was part of the plan was to let him know that early. Right.
It seems like that was when you, when you fought him,
particularly in the first round, you pressed him.
And then that was a rare moment to see someone like really pushing Mike back and
getting Mike back on his heels.
And are the other game. If, if you like might get you back, that may be it.
Right. Right. So you had to attack him. So the whole big thing,
the whole big thing would mean was if things that my momma said, she said,
let me tell you when you know, when you know how good you are,
when somebody depress you with what you're doing, she said,
Mike load oppress other people with Deakin. He handed the press. My mom said,
do it back to him, do it back.
If you want to see somebody to stop doing something, to do it to them,
all of a sudden they'll stop people. Really. Don't like what you make,
what you do to somebody and somebody do it again. You get ticked, right?
Like that. So the thing was too,
we practice just putting pressure point pressure, point pressure,
make him feel the same way that he make other people feel.
So that was the game plan going into the game plan.
Was there anything surprising about that? Fine.
Um, not, not to mean,
cause I didn't want no surprise because of the surprise you may get bugged out.
Right? So the thing is it's to stay over him and admit him,
think about all these things.
Now, once you stopped them in the first fight, the second fight is the fight.
That's probably the most famous fight. Cause he bit a chunky ear off.
And I saw it when you were coming in here, show everybody that well.
Did you ever think about getting that fixed? Well, no.
And you know, not that's my identification. I ain't got my ID.
I can show him. But yeah.
That is.
Right. If you want to get into somewhere. Oh, do you know who I am?
Look at my hair. Yeah. That's crazy, man. That was one of the craziest moments.
When mills lane looked at you and you were jumping up in the air and looked at
Tyson and realize, holy, he bit a chunk out of your ear.
Right? Like what, what were you thinking at that time?
By Nunberg I'm I'm serious. I will get rid of the bike,
the daylights out of him. And I'll going to bite him in the face. I,
everybody face. I wouldn't no wait for the ear. I'm going to get the fats up.
You know? Cause you know, when you're from the ghetto, they say,
if you do something, you gotta do it worse than what they did. And so, you know,
and I told my talk show, I said, no. I said, no,
I will pretended like, like I was hurting real bad,
but I was going to trip you up and bite. You read in your face.
Everybody know what I was going to do. I said, but uh,
this, this prophet told us before the fight, he told me, he said, look,
he going to do something in your face areas that,
but you got to stay focused because if you don't stay focused, God,
that's the only way that he going to get you. Right. So by him by email my ear,
when a man and I knew I'll get me to buy him back.
And, and,
but my corner person stuff started telling me and keep my mind on the Lord.
And because the prophet told me,
he say only way he can get you to get your mind. He,
he going to do something to you. I thought he to hit me away,
elbow a hip, but anything like that.
But I never ever thought in my life he
would bite Monier and find a chunky. And it hurts so bad. And people say,
how bad did it hurt the DTC? I had.
Jumped. Oh no, it was crazy. He just leaped up in the air.
It hurts so bad. And I said, Dan, I said, Dan,
that guy, my corner guide,
Tim hallmark would kept telling me to keep my mind on the Lord.
And I ain't want to hear that. You know, even though he was saying,
and I was man, I was still, I was just trying to remember that, get him,
I want to bite him. I w I,
I really wanted to bite him back.
And all of a sudden I hit my mind that
they always catch the second person. Right.
I'm telling you anything in life.
And I'm the one that people only did something to them.
They will always catch me. And I'm the only one to get, get caught all the time.
Cause they all catch me trying to get to get back. So revenge is the Lord.
So you don't go get back cause you going to get caught. Yeah.
Well, I was amazed that they didn't stop the fight immediately.
When they came back and check and Andy, he asked me, you are Ray.
And I said, yeah, because I least want to hit him. Right.
I really wanted to hit him. I was mad. I was, I was really upset,
but he tried to bite you twice, right? Well, yeah, he bit me twice. He beat you,
but you bit me, when, when we went back in, he thought I was going to be scared.
Then he seen, I caught him with the two shot. Then he bit me again, man.
And I jumped back and I was just getting ready to kick him in a bowl
and in a bail wrong. And I went back to the corner boy and I was so doggone,
man. I was really going to get him and they stopped the fight.
And then I got mad because they stopped the fight.
Cause you were going to get him. I wanted to get him back.
Like he thought that you were going to get him.
And he was trying to find a way out. Well, yeah,
that's the only thing that made sense. Well.
Yeah,
but the thing is only thing that I guess with me
and what I stand on is that I was able to forgive her. And that,
that has been the turnaround in my life to tend to make
people, people, all we wonder by the nearby Nazi.
But I forgave him. Everybody said, so what's special about dead eyes,
but everywhere I go around the world with the Muslim of
whatever, and people said, wow, this guy can put here.
How can you forgive when you already beaten the guy? Yeah.
But you know, but it's, it's what,
what life has to be if going to survive with even your brothers and
sisters. Cause if you don't forgive nobody, you're going to be a mad person.
You're going to find yourself locked up. Right.
Right. And it's going to haunt you. Whereas if you forgave him,
it took a weight off your shoulders.
I'm telling I'm Mike and I,
we do a lot of things together because that forgive this part.
Cool to see you two together now. I mean, when,
when I have seen things that you've done together, I'm like, wow, it was crazy.
Like after he beat you, those crazy fights and to see you together,
laughing and joking around together, it's, it's pretty interesting.
Well, I'm telling you, when you tell people, you know,
when you don't choose your parents, you don't choose your neighborhood.
You ain't choose your skin color. You ain't choose to be tall to short,
but you know, this is your statue. And at two people,
two people who came from the ghetto who box and
box was the only thing I did real well. Okay. And football.
But the thing is that after all that look how much money we may
doing something that we, by doing it properly, we made money.
We made money and we can both, you know,
raise our family and the way that we want to raise.
Him. How long did it take after the fight before you forgave him?
I think at about that time, I,
I got into the locker room and everybody started
complaining, man. I can't believe he did this, this, this, this. I said, Lou,
I said, did he bite you? They said, no. Okay. I said he bit me. Right.
And I said, now I'm going to forgive him. And you know what?
Y'all got to forgive him too. Wow. There's a, what it mean forgiven. I mean,
he ain't.
Bite you. Cause he been me. I said, look, I'm going to forget it. Wow.
Wow. So you forgave him in the locker room right after the fight.
Cut. The thing is the thing is I, you know, I was really mad coming,
coming down and people throwing water and people, man.
And they upset because they ain't get a chance to see what they really wanted to
see. Right. Like this. And so they were mad and they were upset.
And I asked me, I figured,
who in control God? So I said, Lord, what is this thing all about it? He said,
forgiven, I want to forgive.
But this is what it is. We we're the two very important people.
They,
everybody come to see and they need to know that forgiveness is a big part of
the life. And so I was able to do that.
So in the point of being able to do that, you know, I, I,
I realized that it made my life better all over the world.
Kleenex. Yeah, sure. That's.
A very powerful thing, man. It really is.
That's a very powerful decision and you know, it's a very powerful statement,
you know, to, for you, to him after that. I mean,
that really probably did a lot of good for a lot of people to realize, man,
if a Vander,
Holyfield can forgive Mike Tice after he bit a chunk of his ear off,
I mean, that's a, that's a strong statement of character right there.
Well,
you're not the thing is I did know a little earlier than
that. Then they may not want to got that.
In his face.
But, but it's, it's amazing how, what time would do for you,
right? At one point in time, I'm talking to Sam, Sam would have happened,
but because they gave me a little time to think about it and gave me an and I
was like, and you know, you know, with me when, when things, things don't go,
right. I go back to the prayers, Lord, what is this all about? Right.
And he said forgiveness. And you know,
and I wouldn't be who I am is a Wednesday on forgiveness.
Everybody don't fell short somewhere. Right. Am I dead? So, you know,
the whole big thing is, and, and I talked to the week,
a week after that, I talked to my, we were, we,
we said all Shaw basketball game and in New York and,
and I looked up and everybody was streaming.
And I wonder what they're streaming about, telling me to watch out.
I'm like watch out for who I looked up or Mike.
And he had the big bow and he liked this.
And so everybody was telling me
and wanted me to Mike Mike there hit a big bear skin coat, whatever,
you know, he had a big fur coat and stuff like that.
And he went through a number of shake hands and, and a week after a week after,
you know what I'm saying? So it was probably still sore. No,
I wasn't even that the thing is with my ear ma is almost like a
testimony. And you know,
it's almost like you win a trophy yourself, there a person looking and said,
man, he became the guy. So I see that more people,
when they see me, they look at my ear, then that's they see me. And then he,
I smile. And like I said, not in anger, they smiled and said, well, you know,
he, he became that guy. Wow. So.
When you saw Mike, did you guys talk? Yeah. Yeah. A week after the fight. Yeah.
Matter of fact, his, his room with next door to mine. I didn't know.
We came, we came out, we come out at the same time. He looked, he looked,
he asked me, this is all good. I said, yeah.
So we get on the outer avator together.
And we come down with a door open, everybody was shocked.
They were shocked when the, while we wasn't pipe. Right. I did.
I was just you to an elevator. That's just you to an elevator.
And so.
I, the shotgun part and they said, man,
and we thought they will be fine. And I told the guys, man, I said,
you know how much money I got paid in that fight? How much money can you say?
We go fight for free.
Was ever talk about a third fight. Yeah. And have people mentioned,
you know, they, they mentioned it. And, but you know, the thing is,
is that they want to give a lot of money and they,
they acid me to try to, and that,
my only thing is that I got to feel like it's kind of a bully for you to
ask somebody, to fight the fight you again,
when you know you're going to win again. I'm you know,
so the whole big thing is, you know, I just didn't, I didn't think they,
if Mike is Mike wanted to do it, I would have done it, but I wasn't going to go.
I think,
I think you've been a bully when you know you better than somebody and you want
to, you want to play them and something that, you know,
you're going to beat him. Right. Right.
That's a challenge is how about the challenges like that?
I can come back and beat you, but you know, just to just,
you know, you feel that you better.
And so I think it'd be wrong for me to ask it. Right.
No, that's, that's amazing. I mean,
but that just shows what kind of a person you are like that shows what kind of
character you have and that sort of defines your career,
that you are the guy that did always seek the big challenges.
Yeah. I, you know, I, when in this, you know, I,
you know, the nickname real deal. And I was like, and people ask me, I,
you get that name, real deal. I said, you know,
I ju I thank God for all the, anything that great.
It come from God at all. Given time, you know, I'm, you know,
I had a mom who, who had a sixth grade education, but she raised me.
She raised the four time heavyweight champion, the world.
She stayed on me all the time. And my brothers and sisters, he said, mommy,
you gonna make a sister to him. You let him go out Julie, up through nothing.
My momma said, he going to be all right. You just wait and see. And,
and when I think about,
she never did give into what nobody said about,
about me and I became who I am.
And I'm just so I'm just so thankful that in the Bible said,
all good things come and God, anything that is good,
but you came from God.
[Inaudible].